README.md, before:

# Milestone 2 Project - Holiday Finder Website
<img width="1453" height="826" alt="am-i-responsive" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/81a35234-a4ef-40e0-a3f3-3ed687b5e86b" />

## Links
- [Link to Live Website](https://rpires71.github.io/milestone2/) 
- [GitHub Project Repository](https://github.com/rpires71/milestone2)

## Table of contents

- [Milestone Project 2](#milestone-project-2)
- [Holiday Destination Finder](#holiday-destination-finder)
  - [Project Overview](#project-overview)
  - [Project Goals](#project-goals)
  - [Purpose of the Website](#purpose-of-the-website)
  - [Target Audiences](#target-audiences)
- [References](#references)
 

# Milestone Project 2
Development Milestone Project 2 - Interactive Front-End Development
[⬆ Back to Table of contents](#table-of-contents)

# Holiday Destination Finder
[⬆ Back to Table of contents](#table-of-contents)

## Project Overview
[⬆ Back to Table of contents](#table-of-contents)

I have chosen to personally develop a **Holiday Destination Finder** website, which forms part of the **Interactive Front-End Development – Milestone Project 2** for the **Level 5 Diploma in Web Application Development** (Code Institute, 2025). The website integrates a **Google Maps interface** and provides users with access to booking links for **activities, accommodation, flights, and travel packages**, while also offering an interactive platform for researching travel destinations and viewing **attractions, restaurants, and hotels**.

Across all devices, the website delivers an **intuitive and engaging user experience**, ensuring that it is **fully responsive and accessible**, with a design that adheres to **user-centric development principles** (W3C, 2023). To facilitate straightforward navigation and interaction, the site employs **semantic HTML** and a **meaningful visual hierarchy**, with the user interface structured around a **clear and consistent layout** (Mozilla Developer Network, 2024).

In terms of the project's technical implementation, the main technologies used are **HTML5**, **CSS3**, and **JavaScript**, incorporating **responsive design techniques** and **modern front-end features** such as **dynamic DOM manipulation**, **CSS transitions**, and **CSS Grid layouts** (Mozilla Developer Network, 2024). The website enables users to interact with map markers and visually explore destinations through **real-time, location-based data**, achieved by integrating the **Google Maps JavaScript API** (Google Developers, 2024).

To connect users with **reputable travel platforms**, additional interactivity is provided through **external booking links**, **animated search feedback**, and **filter buttons**.

In alignment with the expectations of **modern front-end development**, this professional and interactive web application demonstrates my ability to combine **user-focused design** and **real-world functionality** with strong **practical front-end coding skills**.

## Project Goals
[⬆ Back to Table of contents](#table-of-contents)

The primary objective of the **Holiday Destination Finder** project is to allow users to explore, research, and plan holiday destinations through the design and development of a **user-centred interactive front-end web application** that is both dynamic and fully operational.

By incorporating **API-based interactivity**, **responsive interface design**, and **accessible navigation structures**, the project aims to satisfy all requirements outlined within the **Code Institute Interactive Front-End Development – Milestone Project 2** specification (Code Institute, 2025).

1. **Dynamic Front-End Functionality**
   
   Without dependence on external frameworks, all interactivity and DOM manipulation are achieved through the development of a fully interactive website utilising **custom HTML5**, **CSS3**, and **JavaScript**.
   
   Real-time, location-specific data such as hotels, restaurants, attractions, cafés, and other points of interest are dynamically rendered through the integration of the **Google Maps JavaScript API**, **Google Places API (New)**, and **Google Geocoding API** (Google Developers, 2024).

2. **Responsive User Experience**
   
   To deliver a seamless and consistent user experience by ensuring that the interface is **fully responsive across contemporary devices and varying screen resolutions**.
   
   To adhere to the **Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)** guidelines when applying **user-focused design principles** to enhance accessibility, navigation, and usability (W3C, 2023).

3. **User Interaction and Feedback**
   
   To provide adaptive responses to user interactions, including destination searches, booking button actions, and filtering functionality through the implementation of **JavaScript-driven interactivity**.
   
   To enhance usability and engagement by incorporating **visual indicators and animations** during searches, filter operations, and map interactions (Mozilla Developer Network, 2024).

4. **Information Architecture and Navigation**
   
   To establish a coherent structure by implementing a consistent section hierarchy and a clear primary navigation menu through the design of a **well-organised and logical layout**.
   
   To support accessibility, search engine optimisation (SEO), and maintainable front-end development standards through the application of **semantic HTML** (Mozilla Developer Network, 2024).

5. **Integration with External Services**
   
   Collaborating with trusted third-party platforms such as **Booking.com**, **Google Flights**, **Expedia**, and **GetYourGuide** to incorporate **external booking integrations** for flights, accommodation, leisure activities, and comprehensive travel packages.
   
   To ensure that these integrations enhance the overall user experience without compromising accessibility, functionality, or usability.

6. **Version Control and Deployment**
   
   Throughout the project lifecycle, **Git and GitHub** are utilised to facilitate continuous version control, monitor development progress, and uphold transparency within the development process.
   
   To comply with contemporary web deployment standards and guarantee public accessibility, the final iteration of the project is deployed to **GitHub Pages** (Code Institute, 2025).

7. **Documentation and Attribution**
   
   To compile detailed project documentation outlining the purpose, functionality, and technical scope within a comprehensive `README.md` file.
   
   To credit all external resources, libraries, or tutorials in line with **Code Institute’s attribution and academic integrity policy** (Code Institute, 2025).

---

### Outcome

By accomplishing these objectives, the project demonstrates advanced proficiency in front-end web development, effective utilisation of **JavaScript for dynamic interactivity**, and an in-depth understanding of **practical, user-oriented web design**.

While reflecting the standards expected at Level 5 in **Web Application Development**, the final product showcases both **technical competence** and **professional presentation**,  (Code Institute, 2025).

## Purpose of the Website
[⬆ Back to Table of contents](#table-of-contents)

I have developed the **Holiday Destination Finder** website, which forms a core component of the **Level 5 Diploma in Web Application Development** and constitutes my **Interactive Front-End Development – Milestone Project 2**.

This project demonstrates advanced JavaScript functionality and practical real-world application, aiming to deliver a dynamic, user-oriented front-end web solution. The website functions as an interactive travel platform where users can explore destinations, view attractions, restaurants, cafés, and hotels, and access trusted booking links for complete travel packages, activities, flights, and accommodation.

For users planning and organising their holidays, the website provides an intuitive and engaging experience by integrating location-based technologies with user-centred design principles. Through the incorporation of the **Google Maps JavaScript API**, **Google Places API (New)**, and **Google Geocoding API**, users are able to visually explore destinations and interact with dynamic map markers that display relevant, real-time information.

To strengthen the connection between discovery and travel planning, additional interactivity is achieved through booking integrations with reputable travel providers such as **Expedia**, **Booking.com**, and **GetYourGuide**.

From a development standpoint, this project employs **responsive web design**, **semantic HTML**, and **modular JavaScript** to demonstrate strong technical competence and adherence to professional front-end development standards.

The final deliverable is a visually engaging and accessible web application that aligns with current industry practices in front-end development and showcases the ability to translate user requirements into a fully functional and user-friendly solution.

## Target Audiences
[⬆ Back to Table of contents](#table-of-contents)

This website serves multiple related audiences:

- **Students:**  
  Explore resources, view examples of my work, and understand how I deliver learning experiences in Computer Science and Mathematics.

- **Education Providers and Employers:**  
  Learn about my teaching experience, qualifications, subject specialisms, and download a copy of my CV.

- **Parents and Guardians:**  
  Read student feedback, get in touch via the contact form, and evaluate my approach to teaching and tutoring.

## Key Features and Skills Demonstrated
[⬆ Back to Table of contents](#table-of-contents)

The website highlights my experience as an educator while also showcasing my technical skills in front-end web development, including:

- Responsive design using CSS media queries and/or Bootstrap  
- Semantic, accessible HTML5 structure  
- Custom CSS styling  
- Clean, professional layout and intuitive navigation  
- Interactive elements such as a contact form and downloadable resources  

This project reflects my ability to apply modern web development techniques in a user-focused context, while presenting my professional identity as an educator.

# References
[⬆ Back to Table of contents](#table-of-contents)

- **Code Institute.** (2025) *Interactive Front-End Development – Milestone Project 2 Specification.* Dublin: Code Institute.

- **Google Developers.** (2024) *Google Maps JavaScript API Documentation.*  
  Available at: [https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript)  
  (Accessed: 29 October 2025).

- **Mozilla Developer Network (MDN).** (2024) *HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript – Web Technology References.*  
  Available at: [https://developer.mozilla.org/](https://developer.mozilla.org/)  
  (Accessed: 29 October 2025).

- **W3C.** (2023) *Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) Guidelines.*  
  Available at: [https://www.w3.org/WAI/](https://www.w3.org/WAI/)  
  (Accessed: 29 October 2025).

Commit message:

README - Target Audiences (version 1)
Expanded the target audience section to include detailed descriptions for various user groups, emphasising the functionality and benefits of the Holiday Destination Finder website.

README.md, after:

# Milestone 2 Project - Holiday Finder Website
<img width="1453" height="826" alt="am-i-responsive" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/81a35234-a4ef-40e0-a3f3-3ed687b5e86b" />

## Links
- [Link to Live Website](https://rpires71.github.io/milestone2/) 
- [GitHub Project Repository](https://github.com/rpires71/milestone2)

## Table of contents

- [Milestone Project 2](#milestone-project-2)
- [Holiday Destination Finder](#holiday-destination-finder)
  - [Project Overview](#project-overview)
  - [Project Goals](#project-goals)
  - [Purpose of the Website](#purpose-of-the-website)
  - [Target Audiences](#target-audiences)
- [References](#references)
 

# Milestone Project 2
Development Milestone Project 2 - Interactive Front-End Development
[⬆ Back to Table of contents](#table-of-contents)

# Holiday Destination Finder
[⬆ Back to Table of contents](#table-of-contents)

## Project Overview
[⬆ Back to Table of contents](#table-of-contents)

I have chosen to personally develop a **Holiday Destination Finder** website, which forms part of the **Interactive Front-End Development – Milestone Project 2** for the **Level 5 Diploma in Web Application Development** (Code Institute, 2025). The website integrates a **Google Maps interface** and provides users with access to booking links for **activities, accommodation, flights, and travel packages**, while also offering an interactive platform for researching travel destinations and viewing **attractions, restaurants, and hotels**.

Across all devices, the website delivers an **intuitive and engaging user experience**, ensuring that it is **fully responsive and accessible**, with a design that adheres to **user-centric development principles** (W3C, 2023). To facilitate straightforward navigation and interaction, the site employs **semantic HTML** and a **meaningful visual hierarchy**, with the user interface structured around a **clear and consistent layout** (Mozilla Developer Network, 2024).

In terms of the project's technical implementation, the main technologies used are **HTML5**, **CSS3**, and **JavaScript**, incorporating **responsive design techniques** and **modern front-end features** such as **dynamic DOM manipulation**, **CSS transitions**, and **CSS Grid layouts** (Mozilla Developer Network, 2024). The website enables users to interact with map markers and visually explore destinations through **real-time, location-based data**, achieved by integrating the **Google Maps JavaScript API** (Google Developers, 2024).

To connect users with **reputable travel platforms**, additional interactivity is provided through **external booking links**, **animated search feedback**, and **filter buttons**.

In alignment with the expectations of **modern front-end development**, this professional and interactive web application demonstrates my ability to combine **user-focused design** and **real-world functionality** with strong **practical front-end coding skills**.

## Project Goals
[⬆ Back to Table of contents](#table-of-contents)

The primary objective of the **Holiday Destination Finder** project is to allow users to explore, research, and plan holiday destinations through the design and development of a **user-centred interactive front-end web application** that is both dynamic and fully operational.

By incorporating **API-based interactivity**, **responsive interface design**, and **accessible navigation structures**, the project aims to satisfy all requirements outlined within the **Code Institute Interactive Front-End Development – Milestone Project 2** specification (Code Institute, 2025).

1. **Dynamic Front-End Functionality**
   
   Without dependence on external frameworks, all interactivity and DOM manipulation are achieved through the development of a fully interactive website utilising **custom HTML5**, **CSS3**, and **JavaScript**.
   
   Real-time, location-specific data such as hotels, restaurants, attractions, cafés, and other points of interest are dynamically rendered through the integration of the **Google Maps JavaScript API**, **Google Places API (New)**, and **Google Geocoding API** (Google Developers, 2024).

2. **Responsive User Experience**
   
   To deliver a seamless and consistent user experience by ensuring that the interface is **fully responsive across contemporary devices and varying screen resolutions**.
   
   To adhere to the **Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)** guidelines when applying **user-focused design principles** to enhance accessibility, navigation, and usability (W3C, 2023).

3. **User Interaction and Feedback**
   
   To provide adaptive responses to user interactions, including destination searches, booking button actions, and filtering functionality through the implementation of **JavaScript-driven interactivity**.
   
   To enhance usability and engagement by incorporating **visual indicators and animations** during searches, filter operations, and map interactions (Mozilla Developer Network, 2024).

4. **Information Architecture and Navigation**
   
   To establish a coherent structure by implementing a consistent section hierarchy and a clear primary navigation menu through the design of a **well-organised and logical layout**.
   
   To support accessibility, search engine optimisation (SEO), and maintainable front-end development standards through the application of **semantic HTML** (Mozilla Developer Network, 2024).

5. **Integration with External Services**
   
   Collaborating with trusted third-party platforms such as **Booking.com**, **Google Flights**, **Expedia**, and **GetYourGuide** to incorporate **external booking integrations** for flights, accommodation, leisure activities, and comprehensive travel packages.
   
   To ensure that these integrations enhance the overall user experience without compromising accessibility, functionality, or usability.

6. **Version Control and Deployment**
   
   Throughout the project lifecycle, **Git and GitHub** are utilised to facilitate continuous version control, monitor development progress, and uphold transparency within the development process.
   
   To comply with contemporary web deployment standards and guarantee public accessibility, the final iteration of the project is deployed to **GitHub Pages** (Code Institute, 2025).

7. **Documentation and Attribution**
   
   To compile detailed project documentation outlining the purpose, functionality, and technical scope within a comprehensive `README.md` file.
   
   To credit all external resources, libraries, or tutorials in line with **Code Institute’s attribution and academic integrity policy** (Code Institute, 2025).

---

### Outcome

By accomplishing these objectives, the project demonstrates advanced proficiency in front-end web development, effective utilisation of **JavaScript for dynamic interactivity**, and an in-depth understanding of **practical, user-oriented web design**.

While reflecting the standards expected at Level 5 in **Web Application Development**, the final product showcases both **technical competence** and **professional presentation**,  (Code Institute, 2025).

## Purpose of the Website
[⬆ Back to Table of contents](#table-of-contents)

I have developed the **Holiday Destination Finder** website, which forms a core component of the **Level 5 Diploma in Web Application Development** and constitutes my **Interactive Front-End Development – Milestone Project 2**.

This project demonstrates advanced JavaScript functionality and practical real-world application, aiming to deliver a dynamic, user-oriented front-end web solution. The website functions as an interactive travel platform where users can explore destinations, view attractions, restaurants, cafés, and hotels, and access trusted booking links for complete travel packages, activities, flights, and accommodation.

For users planning and organising their holidays, the website provides an intuitive and engaging experience by integrating location-based technologies with user-centred design principles. Through the incorporation of the **Google Maps JavaScript API**, **Google Places API (New)**, and **Google Geocoding API**, users are able to visually explore destinations and interact with dynamic map markers that display relevant, real-time information.

To strengthen the connection between discovery and travel planning, additional interactivity is achieved through booking integrations with reputable travel providers such as **Expedia**, **Booking.com**, and **GetYourGuide**.

From a development standpoint, this project employs **responsive web design**, **semantic HTML**, and **modular JavaScript** to demonstrate strong technical competence and adherence to professional front-end development standards.

The final deliverable is a visually engaging and accessible web application that aligns with current industry practices in front-end development and showcases the ability to translate user requirements into a fully functional and user-friendly solution.

## Target Audiences
[⬆ Back to Table of contents](#table-of-contents)

By utilising this interactive and informative platform, several interconnected user groups with a shared interest in exploring, researching, and planning holidays will recognise that the **Holiday Destination Finder** website has been specifically developed to meet their needs. Each audience benefits from tailored functionality and a user experience that emphasises accessibility, engagement, and operational efficiency.

**1. Travellers and Holiday Planners:**

The platform enables users to research destinations, view attractions, and explore nearby restaurants, cafés, and hotels, making it particularly suitable for individuals seeking inspiration for upcoming holidays.

Users are supported in making informed travel decisions and organising their trips through visual interaction with locations, dynamic map markers, and search filtering, facilitated by the integration of the **Google Maps JavaScript API**, **Google Places API (New)**, and **Google Geocoding API**.

**2. Travel Enthusiasts and Explorers:**  

By navigating interactive destination information and real-time data, users can discover new locations and cultural experiences. Their sense of exploration and discovery is enhanced through visual engagement with detailed points of interest and the integration of location-based content.

**3. Group Travellers and Families:**

Through trusted travel partners such as **Booking.com**, **Expedia**, and **GetYourGuide**, families and group travellers can access reliable booking integrations. This secure and user-friendly environment, offering practical travel solutions, provides functionality that streamlines the planning process and strengthens the connection between users and their travel arrangements.

**4. Travel Service Providers and Industry Professionals:**

The website demonstrates effective **API integration** and **responsive front-end development**, resulting in enhanced user engagement within the travel and tourism industry. It can also serve as a valuable reference resource for industry collaboration or educational demonstration, enabling professionals to gain insight into the website’s front-end interactivity, accessibility functionality, and design principles.

---

Supported by contemporary front-end technologies and user-centred design principles, the **Holiday Destination Finder** provides a clear, accessible, and interactive web experience. Whether researching destinations or booking a trip, it ensures that every user within these distinct audiences is effectively accommodated.

## Key Features and Skills Demonstrated
[⬆ Back to Table of contents](#table-of-contents)

The website highlights my experience as an educator while also showcasing my technical skills in front-end web development, including:

- Responsive design using CSS media queries and/or Bootstrap  
- Semantic, accessible HTML5 structure  
- Custom CSS styling  
- Clean, professional layout and intuitive navigation  
- Interactive elements such as a contact form and downloadable resources  

This project reflects my ability to apply modern web development techniques in a user-focused context, while presenting my professional identity as an educator.

# References
[⬆ Back to Table of contents](#table-of-contents)

- **Code Institute.** (2025) *Interactive Front-End Development – Milestone Project 2 Specification.* Dublin: Code Institute.

- **Google Developers.** (2024) *Google Maps JavaScript API Documentation.*  
  Available at: [https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript)  
  (Accessed: 29 October 2025).

- **Mozilla Developer Network (MDN).** (2024) *HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript – Web Technology References.*  
  Available at: [https://developer.mozilla.org/](https://developer.mozilla.org/)  
  (Accessed: 29 October 2025).

- **W3C.** (2023) *Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) Guidelines.*  
  Available at: [https://www.w3.org/WAI/](https://www.w3.org/WAI/)  
  (Accessed: 29 October 2025).
